---
layout: book
title: "Blue Mars"
author: "Kim Stanley Robinson"
rating: "5"
date_read: "2019-07-20"
---

What an accomplishment this series is -- Robinson's worlds are expansive and
interesting, and he writes with great care and optimism about the difficult
journey of his settlers as their tiny effort grows into a world and then more. 

In retrospect, one of the things that makes these books really go is that
Robinson manages to make his McGuffin not so McGuffin-like. I am referring here
to the "longevity treatment," one of a handful of quasi-miraculous scientific
inventions that exist to propel the plot forward. In other works, especially in
other science fiction, you get a lot of these kinds of devices and inventions,
but the full ramifications of their invention are hardly ever explored. Robinson
does not make that mistake. He immediately identifies that the longevity
treatment would play itself out on Earth as a physical marker of class division,
and would create a truly desperate Malthusian scenario. This treatment, though,
really does drive forward some of the central themes of the books: how can you
maintain a new, free society against an exploding immigrant population? The
solution to this, for Robinson, involves a dramatic de-centralization of power.
In a very long chapter describing the constitutional congress of the new Martian
society, Robinson has his characters push for small-scale, locally-driven
government, with most of the actual enforcement left up to an environmental
Supreme court, which is directed specifically to consider the long-term effects
on the planet's ecosystem as part of its judgments. 

The longevity treatment provides a serious storytelling advantage for Robinson
as well: he is able to have the same handful of characters be the focus points
of the story while more than a hundred years of events take place around them.
Oftentimes, the characters are at the center of the crucial action: fighting in
the revolutionary conflict or organizing the constitutional congress. Sometimes,
though, life just seems to pass by around them. Nirgal, one of the central
characters starting in the second book, decides that he wants to stop being
involved in politics and so we watch as he tries to set up a farm inside
a crater while critical developments in the world pass by on TV screens or in
half-overheard conversations around him. For me, it created a sense of
understanding and communion with the characters themselves, especially as they
develop and change over the long, long course of the story. 

These books are truly spectacular, and I look forward to coming back and reading
them again. Robinson is an optimist in many ways: the Martian society is not
perfect, but it shows humanity as able to shove aside some of the worst
tendencies of late capitalism and move towards a verdant and expansive future.

