---
layout: book
title: "Bad Blood: Secrets and Lies in a Silicon Valley Startup"
author: "John Carreyrou"
rating: "5"
date_read: "2019-01-06"
---

An incredible book. Carreyrou tells a riveting story, faithfully reconstructed.
Having worked in startups, some of what was in the book was familiar, but
Theranos ratcheted it up to absurd levels. It's an amazing story, perfect for
the age that we live in today. We owe a collective debt of gratitude to the
people who were willing to risk so much out to make the story known. It's
incredible how much information can be repressed by people with access to
high-powered lawyers and a lot of money.

Reading this book right after finishing [Winners Take
All](/books/winners-take-all) was really additive. Giridharadas spends a lot of
time establishing that a certain class of people not only run the world but also
have convinced themselves that their rule is fair and benevolent. Holmes here is
the perfect embodiment of what Giridharadas calls MarketWorld. In her statements
and emails, Holmes repeatedly and consistently talks about how Theranos was
doing incredible humanitarian work. She sat on the boards of panels and was a
regular in the MarketWorld thought-leadership circuit.

Meanwhile, she was perpetrating continuous and massive fraud and endangering the
lives of huge numbers of people. Bureaucracy, often the source of frustration
among MarketWorld types, turns out to be critical in stopping Theranos from
being used by active duty military and eventually stops them entirely.

Giridharadas is convincing in his book that MarketWorld elites truly do rule the
world, and their "protocols" influence the way that many parts of our lives are
run. One thing that is revealed by this book is that those elites are total
fools, falling for too-good-to-be-true promises, ignorant of obstructions to
their worldview, and unwilling to hear about any possible problems, even from
members of their own families. 

