---
layout: post
title: 2018 and 2019
excerpt: Look, it's just like the post underneath this one!
---

Last year, for the second time in a row, I wrote about what wanted to accomplish
in 2018, and now it's something of an annual thing. Now it's time to do it again
for 2019:

### 2018 Goals

##### Release some music: _Completed_

I released two tracks that served as small musical vignettes for scenes in an
ongoing DND campaign ([one][goldenfields] and [two][savage frontier]). It was a
lot of fun, but I hope that I can expand beyond this a bit and write a bit more
and different stuff in the future.

##### Perform something live: _Completed_

I performed Philip Glass's [opening from Glassworks][ben glassworks] in mid-2018
at a Spotify employee recital. It was an okay performance! I definitely have
played it better before in practice, but it went okay all things considered. I
was incredibly nervous. My favorite recording of this that I took a lot of
inspiration from was [this one][good glassworks] by Víkingur Ólafsson.

##### Track what I'm reading a bit better: _Completed_

I wanted to pull my books off of Goodreads and onto the blog, and write short
reviews of each of them. I did that! Find it in the [books](/books) section. I
read 38 books this year in fits and bursts. Looking back, the ones I recommend
the most are Elena Ferrante's remarkable [Neapolitan
Novels](/books/my-brilliant-friend). For non-fiction, I really enjoyed [Ramp
Hollow](/books/ramp-hollow) by Steven Stoll and [The Reactionary
Mind](/books/the-reactionary-mind) by Corey Robin.

##### Make some open source contributions: _Not completed_

I didn't do this at all! It turns out that when I spend all my time doing this
at my day job, I want to do something else at night.

##### Do a small refresh on the blog: _Sort of completed_

I fixed up some of the old CSS bugs and continued to reduce the size of the
page. I also added the new books section.

---

Overall, 2018 was a really great year. We did some travelling and got to spend a
lot of quality time with friends and family.

### 2019 Goals

##### Write and play more music

After a short burst of productivity, I haven't really gotten much more else
written. I think that I am overthinking things quite a bit and feeling a bit too
focused on soundtracking. It would be better, I think, to focus more on quantity
of output for awhile just to get more familiar with the tools and workflows in
modern music recording and production.

I also am really enjoying playing the piano casually. It's really relaxing, and
quite enjoyable to study. Hopefully, I'll get the chance to perform again this
year. I have been working on [Ambre][ambre] by Nils Frahm and a Beethoven Sonata
in G Major.

##### Improved general fitness

I spent another year focused on powerlifting and ended up with pretty good
numbers, but my general fitness is pretty lacking. It is pretty easy to lose
focus on general fitness by chasing numbers. I'm going to try to do more yoga
and running this year.

##### Work more on my Spanish

I continued to work on my Spanish this past year, but I have sort of hit a wall
with it. I have bought a few children's books that I am going to work on
translating this year. Look for poorly written Spanish reviews of those books
later this year. I'm also going to seek out a school and see if I can take
classes.

##### Read and do the exercises from The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs

[The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs][sicp] is a classic book
about computer programs. I've gone through the first two chapters a handful of
times but I've never gotten much further. My goal for this year is to work
through the entire book and do the exercises. It will be good to work with an
implementation of the ["only good programming language"](https://xkcd.com/297/)

[goldenfields]: https://soundcloud.com/system-of-signs/goldenfields
[savage frontier]: https://soundcloud.com/system-of-signs/the-savage-frontier
[ben glassworks]: https://www.dropbox.com/s/jdkm486lvfd14lt/04_Ben_Smithgall.mov-high.x265.mp4?dl=0
[good glassworks]: https://open.spotify.com/track/2XYEu7Deyz20WeL6Py3XLc?si=K1DvXQTvRieRotTM9DdwNQ
[ambre]: https://open.spotify.com/track/71BqXMUdoiYHohiDlMihIR?si=gwyAnLnJQV6qfMAzy-6PTwr
[sicp]: https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/structure-and-interpretation-computer-programs-second-edition
