---
layout: post
title: 2019 and 2020
excerpt: I don't write blogs anymore, I just write year-end reviews.
---

This is yet another look forward and look back end-of-year post. My 2019 goals
didn't really go as planned; I ended up taking a new job about halfway through
the year at the New York Times, where I've worked on a number of different
things, including some [campaign finance
stories](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/08/02/us/politics/2020-democratic-fundraising.html),
work on a large [leaked location
dataset](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/12/19/opinion/location-tracking-cell-phone.html),
elections coverage, and tooling to better connect with Times readers. I also
continued writing tiny reviews of all the books I read this past year. My
favorites were Kim Stanley Robinson's [_Mars_](/books/red-mars) trilogy,
[_Nixonland_](/books/nixonland), and Umberto Eco's tremendous [_Name of the
Rose_](/books/name-of-the-rose).

### 2019 Goals

##### Write and play more music: _Completed_

I wrote and released a bit more soundtrack music, but also something ambient and
unrelated to the game that I'm pretty [proud
of](https://soundcloud.com/system-of-signs/floating).

##### Improved general fitness: _Sort of completed_

In the end, I ended up going back to the 5/3/1 split because I couldn't really
figure out anything else to do. I like 5/3/1; it's simple, and I am still making
progress towards higher weights. I spent most of the year working back towards
where I was at the end of 2018 since I had taken nearly two months off, but by
the end of the year I had set a new PR with a 475lb deadlift.

##### Work more on my Spanish: _Not completed_

This was a complete failure this year. At the beginning of the year I had bought
translations of a few chapter books (notably, the first two of the _Series of
Unfortunate Events_ books translated into Spanish), but I stopped working
through them about halfway through the year, right around when I started my new
job. I would say that my Spanish proficiency has basically remained the same
this year, but I want to try to work on it more. I'm not sure the best way to
improve on where I am now.

##### Read and do the exercises from The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs: _Not completed_

I didn't even start this.

### 2020 Goals

##### Less TV

I read [this](https://thebaffler.com/salvos/r-i-p-kill-your-tv-zaitchik)
criticism towards the end of the year and it really resonated with me, so I'm
going to make a concerted effort this year to try to watch less television.
Specifically, I want to cut out "filler" TV.

##### Deadlift 500

I got pretty close by the end of this past year, but I am going to deload 10% at
the start of 2020 and work up towards the big 500. I should hit it towards the
middle of the year. At that point, I may want to recalibrate and move towards
something else.

##### Survive the primary season

I'm working on covering the election for the Times this year. They say its a
marathon, not a sprint!

##### Play the Mozart Piano Sonata No. 16 in C Major (1st mvmt)

This is a [very well-known piece](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qjk-YRuQZDE)
for early intermediate students, and I think I should be able to manage to get
through it this year.

##### Keep reviewing books

I've really enjoyed doing that, and it has been nice to watch the big list of
books grow over time.
